[Music]
I'm not the announcer Todd Wilkerson but
I sound so much like in that Eric asked
me to take over evidently Todd was
caught stealing again or it was nothing
big just some toilet paper out of the
studio bathroom and little soaps and
some potpourri but still Eric said it
was the principle of the thing so he
fired Todd's behind just like that and
now your host mr. law and order Eric
Metaxas but I I thought we were
currently under grace under the new
covenant we'll get back to that at
another time right now I'd like to
introduce a particularly special guest I
have been trying to hunt down the great
Ravi Zacharias for years some of you
know if you go to Socrates in the city
calm I've interviewed all kinds of
people there and people always say to me
have you had Ravi Zacharias on and the
answer inevitably sadly is no because
Ravi Zacharias never touches down long
enough in the United States where you
can capture him on film until today
somehow I'm not sure we got him into the
studio in New York City Ravi Zacharias
welcome thank you sir what an honor to
be with you guys I feel I this is like
spotting the white buffalo or something
some rare beast that is never seen
fabled beast and to have you with me in
the studio we've tried such a long time
now I know
Ravi there's so many people that they
know you but there are many people
listening right now who are saying who
who's this guy and I thought that's
precisely why I do the program because I
have the great joy and honor of
introducing folks like you to new people
so I think of you as an apologist for
the Christian faith principally as an
author of innumerable books
you really do travel around the world
incessantly I mean you you really have
an international life I mean I'm not
exaggerating but there are many people
who don't know your story and I don't
know that I've ever heard you tell your
story so I thought before we talk about
what you've got happening now I wanted
to introduce my audience to you too
Robbie the man
and to tell to tell your story so tell
us where you grew up how it was you came
to faith and how it was you came to be
what we call an apologist for the
Christian faith first of all thanks for
having me Eric you know love your work
love your books those massive tomes that
you put out there which linger for a
long while on many a journey so thanks
so much for what you're doing yeah even
though the last several decades have
been in the West I was 20 years old when
I moved to Canada but I prior to that my
home was India I'm an Indian by birth
born in the southern city of Chennai
where the language is Tamil and raised
in the northern city of Delhi where the
language is Hindi India has many major
languages
my dad was from even a different state
Kerala where the language in Malayalam
which I never got to learn but Tamil is
okay for me Hindi I'm quite fluent in
you you speak Hindustani yes sir
yeah Hindi is short for the Hindustani
yeah yeah actually very comfortable with
that because all of my friends spoke and
they growing up and the movies if you
see the movies in India which is the
major avenue of communication I was a
movie goer every Saturday but that's
where I grew up in Delhi and the
interesting thing is even though we were
nominally Christian and I mean that very
literally in name the meaning Wilmore
war beat what we are not we were not
Hindus we are not Muslims you're not
Buddhist we are not six
so we're branded as Christians five
generations on one side seven
generations and the other side our
ancestors came to Jesus Christ a
fascinating story but I did not know
Christ at all I went to church it was a
cultural thing every Sunday early
morning and hanged a very beautiful
Anglican Church but I can't tell you one
single sermon I heard there because my
heart was not in it my mind was not in
it I was a lover of cricket and all of
our cricket matches were played on
Sundays so I was gonna ask you what's
cricket a Hindu god no it's his fourth
the your experience of course is quite
typical there are many people around the
world for whom Christian faith has a
cultural experience that was mainly my
story up until I was in my
so what did you think you wanted to do
with your life when you were a teenager
in India when I was a teenager in India
sports was everything to me and that's
what built a great wall between my
father and myself because there was no
money in it you know it is just a
profession
I want to play cricket for India I
didn't realize when you said you love
cricket you really loved cricket and you
know India is one of the major
cricketing countries England New Zealand
Australia Pakistan India Sri Lanka they
were the five or six major countries
that played it but they were not
professional creators they had to be
working elsewhere and then when the so
called
Test matches were played between two
countries which would happen once a year
or once every two years they'd come out
of their professions you could be
working for the railways you could be
working as a teacher somewhere so I
don't know what I was really thinking it
was not gonna be a means of support you
were thinking exactly what I was
thinking when I told my parents I wanted
to be a writer you know it's like okay
and what are you gonna do to pay the
rent well I don't know that's it but my
dad that built tension between him and
me and then what actually happened Erik
in the most serious serious most stage
of my life you know I've always been a
pursuer of meaning I don't just do
things I don't just write for the sake
of writing what is the purpose of this
book am i contributing anything new in
what's happening here why am i speaking
on this subject you know what is
marriage going to mean what is this
afternoon with my son and me going to
going to accomplish so the fact is I was
looking for tiny little meanings but I
had no ultimate meaning when you talk
about Hinduism and the pantheistic world
is they don't talk about meaning it's
all a cyclical thing yeah every birth is
a rebirth and there the repetitive
nature of life so the age of 17 I ended
up on a bed of suicide in Delhi and that
to me till this day is a very emotional
thing I hardly ever talk about it to my
family although the
when I wrote my book about it walking
from east to west I asked their
permission
I said this may embarrass the family
what do you think and they supported me
I have four siblings and on that bit of
suicide which is you know you're writing
your book on miracles why did it happen
this way to me why did this man come
into the hospital room with a Bible in
his hand to talk to me I have to ask you
when you say you found yourself on a bed
of suicide I'm not clear on what
happened had you attempted to consider
yourself yes and you find yourself in a
hospital having survived that is correct
but hanging on by a thread I had taken
poison that I had brought with me and
mixed it with a glass of water some
chemicals that were mocked poison and
the science lab and you know it's still
a very painful thing to talk about but
can I but can I ask you what led you
that's a very dramatic thing for it for
a seventeen-year-old to try so seriously
to take his life can you say what led
you to this in India it's not that
uncommon and especially during
examination time I could name two or
three kind of classmates of mine who
more mercilessly ended their lives by
one of my closest friends
you know dumped kerosene on himself set
himself ablaze his father had a big
business there it's a culture of honor
and shame it's not exaggerated India's a
culture of study study is the number one
thing that's why even when they go
abroad they do so well they will just
pour themselves into the books they will
memorize their mathematicians to the
core scientists computer engineers and
the competitiveness is very real out
there and I just didn't have the
discipline to do it my class my friends
did I was looking to the cricket pitch
every day but that attempt to poison
myself failed and I've often said I used
to tell my story the concoction that I
made and took into my system turned out
I said unfortunately turned out to be
very salty
and my body started to reject it and I
remember a doctor saying to me in the
audience that don't say unfortunately it
is that saltiness that caused the body
to reject what you'd put in there and as
the moisture was being thrown out so was
the poison and I was in the hospital for
five days before I was released and it
did a lot of gastro gastronomical damage
they branded it as gastroenterology
mishap something like that but that's
what it did some damage to me then and
but that's what that's the valley that
God brought me through let me hit pause
here for a moment folks we're gonna take
a break for station identification we'll
be right back with Ravi Zacharias it's
the Eric Metaxas show hey there folks
it's here crow Texas show I'm sitting
here with Ravi Zacharias Christian
apologist author former cricketer Ravi
you just took us to the darkest place
anyone could ever go which is to say to
the point of death by one's own hand you
mercifully survived and so what happens
at this point you are 17 years old I'm
sure your family is horrified and you
said someone came to you on the hospital
bed who was a Christian and I think it's
important for the listener to know you
know oftentimes there are different
reasons for one who would go through
that dark stage sometimes there are
definitely some psychological
neurochemical issues at work and so on
it was none of that for me for me it was
the pursuit of meaning and struggling to
be accepted by a very disciplined dad
and a dad who was tough on me for
reasons that he had I wanted to sort of
shame me into reality I'm sure that's
what he meant but when I went through
that dark stage this gentleman whom I
had heard once before met once what for
what for you it's for Christ but I was
and I was not in the clearest state of
mind you know lying in that bed and
dehydrated which meant I couldn't use my
limbs I couldn't lift my hand and he
came into the room with a Bible in his
head
and wanted to read it to me and my
mother was sort of surprised saying how
did you even get here he's in intensive
care he said well I'm a minister
and so on but he she wouldn't let him
stay so he opened it to the Gospel of
John John chapter 14 and had my mother
read it to me my mother was a teacher
but English was not her first language a
very heavy accent in English and here
was the King James Version she's holding
it in her hand reading it and I'm having
a hard time tracking what she's saying
but you know the amazing thing to me
again how God orchestrated this all that
conversation in John 14 is with Thomas
and Thomas is the one who was the first
one to bring the gospel to India yeah
and paid with his life yeah and so the
exclusivity passage is there I'm the way
the truth and the life no one comes unto
the father but by me but I was going
past all of that until in verse 19 Eric
it's like a bolt of lightning in a
moment of pitch blackness because I live
you also shall live because I live you
also shall live and but nobody
explaining it to me it had to be the
Holy Spirit of God because I was Green
as far as the scriptures were concerned
never opened a Bible in my life before
and just thinking to myself whatever
this live is about is not what my life
was about and so it's Jesus of course
talking and I said Jesus if you are who
you claim to be here I want that life
that I do not have if this is the life
you offer to me and I promise if you
will take me out of this hospital bed I
will leave no stone unturned in my
pursuit of truth that was the line I
will leave no stone unturned in the
pursuit of truth that's pretty intense
for a 17 year very intense but that's
the way I was I still I'm still a lover
of words I'm a lover of articulating
something with precision and I said this
is how I'm feeling and the irony of it
is Eric years later when my mother
passed away my dad asked me what verse I
wanted on her stone her great
stone and I took John 14:19 many many
years went by and I was in Delhi and I
my wife Margie who's Canadian she said
to me you have talked so much about your
grandmother dying have you visited her
grave I said no I said let's find it and
fortunately in Delhi there's only one
Christian cemetery at that time we found
it but they couldn't find the the
particular grave I mean nobody had been
there for decades
she died when in the 50s and we're not
talking about the 90s okay so four
decades had gone by so we found the mark
but it had sunk
we found the plot number I should say
through contacting the registry and so I
called a gardener with his shovel and
bucket and he starts digging and digging
and digging in the dirt scumming I was
going deeper and deeper and deeper and I
just thought somebody had already
plundered the grave then he hit stone
summable slab and as the stone begins to
clear my wife is standing next to me and
she gripped my arm and there's the name
of my grandmother
Agnes T Monica the date of birth the
date of death in 55 because I live you
also shall live my grandmother had that
on her grave that I mean that is a story
Ravi this is one of those stories for
people who don't believe in miracles I
mean just the idea that that was the
scripture that God used to bring you to
faith then the idea that it should be on
your mother's grave then the idea that
you should somehow decide to go looking
for a grave which is buried underground
which no one would see unless you happen
to go there it's correct and then as if
you know floating out of the past here
it comes the same scripture I I know God
has spoken to me that way sometimes and
people often think well it's
coincidental alerts this to that but I
think that when it happens to you
because we serve a personal God you know
it is not coincidental you know what
it's God's Way of winking at you and
saying just in case you wondered whether
I'm paying attention to these details
what do you think of this I planted this
here in
the mid-50s and you see it now I mean
that's staggering it was quite
astonishing to Margie and to myself and
we just stood there and actually a long
story followed after that I contacted
the Delhi Cemetery Authority and I said
this stone is just about falling apart
can we put a new one in and they said
well the rules of laws have changed but
I built it up and my younger brother and
I paid for that stone and now it's very
clearly set up in sort of three little
layers with the same wording but yeah
you know it's one of those Luke 24
moment type thing where Jesus connects
all the dots for the disciples you know
he's telling them all from the beginning
how all of this was meant to be and they
invite him in for dinner and when he
breaks the bread they say wow well we
did not know who was with us at this
time I think in life God does that on
many punctuated moments yeah just enough
to remind you I'm with you all the way
it's it's so beautiful well I want to go
back then to this moment so you're on
this hospital bed your age 17 and you
make this vow so what happens following
that so you don't become a Christian on
the hospital bed as a result of your
mother reading this to you or would you
say your faith began there I would say
my faith began there okay but it matured
a lot over the next two to three years
through the Ministry of Youth for Christ
I knew what I had done I didn't know the
depth of what it all meant I tried to go
to a church the next Sunday
maybe a couple of Sundays after that I
walked into a mainline church there I
didn't know there was such things as
liberal preachers and conservative
preachers and when I went and told the
vicar there what I had done the minister
they were had done he just stared at me
he said you know this is some kind of
melodramatic thing he said like sitting
at the foot of the mountains staring at
yourself or something like that is what
he said he said you'll get over it and I
said but I don't want to I said what I
have just found is what I needed so then
a little later an American preacher came
there and became his name was
richly he passed away last year I still
stay in touch with his daughter now
lives in Minnesota when I started
hearing him preach the gospel I said
this is exactly what I have done what I
needed so I attended a Bible study with
Youth for Christ every Monday night and
believe it or not within about six
months I was teaching that Bible study
from the book of Romans because my
closest friend who later on became my
brother-in-law a Hindu Brahmin was able
to bring him to the Lord
we were walking outside in the
neighborhood okay it's a 204 flats there
surrounding a field where he used to
play cricket so we're walking past a
garbage dump and at the top of the
garbage heap we see a book and we lean
over and it says a commentary to the
Epistle Romans by Saint Paul by WH
Griffin Thomas oh my god that incredible
writer now till this day I don't know
who threw it there because I don't know
if there was a single Christian in the
community I actually guess some
missionary had given it to my dad and
he's the one that may have pitched it
without knowing what he was throwing
away I still have that by the way I
still have that volume I have it right
on my desk Evan pitched it no I haven't
pitched it a lot of a lot of gold
nuggets in there so we started teaching
the book of Romans and you know the
whole idea of justification by faith and
the grace brand-new believers you know
we just come to know the Lord and verse
by verse my brother-in-law and I he's
now in the ministry he was a nuclear
physicist my training went to MIT and
then later in life he gave his life to
the Lord
azzam in ministry to his merit to my
sister he now has just retired from
being a pastor for 30-some years and he
wrote to me in May he said do you
remember this day this is when we walked
forward together to totally commit our
lives to Jesus Christ at a hill station
of Missouri for a wife see summer camp
just the handiwork of God you know this
is beautiful I'm so glad that that
you're here generally speaking and then
specifically to get this story from you
people need to hear these wonderful
stories that what God does
in people's lives folks I'm talking to
Ravi Zacharias the one the only this is
the Eric Metaxas show do not go away hey
there folks Ciara taxes show I'm sitting
here with Ravi Zacharias Ravi you have a
new book out called the logic of God
52 Christian essentials for the heart
and mind this is a devotional book and I
want to talk to you also about the book
that came out last year Jesus among
secular God's the countercultural claims
of Christ but before we get to that I
want to just continue with your story if
we could it's an extraordinary thing a
young man comes to faith and and you
come to faith dramatically and very very
intentionally it's it's not everyone is
like you and it's amazing to hear how
everyone is different so you dive in and
before you know it you're teaching a
Bible study from the book of Romans of
all things that's not exactly an easy
book and what happens to you
subsequently do you know rather quickly
that you want a life in ministry good
question
no I don't think so although it would
have been fascinating the thought would
have been fascinating in India you don't
have any models for that
you know I suddenly didn't want to
become a pastor this is the 60s roughly
that is correct yeah in mid 60's oh I
would not have thinking thought of
becoming a pastor and then the ones I
met were missionaries they were from
overseas so those were the only two
models I actually saw I don't remember
ever meeting a single itinerant who was
doing evangelism of any repute out there
I'd heard a Billy Graham in fact he came
to our church I've got a picture when he
visited the seminary Methodist Church in
Delhi I sitting on the platform small
Church but he came and spoke there what
happened was I was going into the
hospitality industry till this day I
really loved the hotel industry the food
industry no don't you pretty much live
in hotels at that point in your life on
the right side of it yeah yeah so I was
I moved to Canada and when I was 20 my
why why that's it my father sent my
older brothers 22 and me 20
to get I was gonna go to Cornell take a
degree in hospitality management course
Cornell they have that I have had
friends that have gone to Cornell for
that specific ignite so it it's not in
Canada no I got a visa to go to Canada
first to work I was going to earn my way
save some money my dad and mom couldn't
have supported me with that cost of
education so while I was working in the
hotel industry there getting some
experience and working I started taking
some passed our part-time courses at a
Seminary in Toronto and again I just I
don't know how all of this happened you
know I mean why did I start doing that I
was working nights why do I need to be
awake longer during the day but it was
that hunger
I just wanted to study I'd never heard
of the term systematic theology never
heard of the great church father isn't
all blast taking these courses and this
was like my appetite was being stirred I
was excited about going 2 to 3 hours of
lectures every day and while I was in
the thick of that fascinatingly because
there was such few Indians in Toronto at
that time the only 500 engines in
Toronto and we arrived today there are
five hundred thousand-plus Wow so I mean
it there in fact we used to be
introduced as to Indian natives who have
arrived here in Canada whenever we were
introduced in church so my brother he
was very sensitive so what do you mean
natives nationals but my brother got a
job with IBM he loved the computer world
within five days you got the job ended
up becoming a systems engineer then
starting his own company I was plowing
through this whole hospitality industry
and I was getting more and more restless
for a couple of reasons in the hotels I
looked at the life there and without
getting too detailed I said is this what
I really want
Eric things happen after midnight in
those places that you know or know is
not good for anybody for the family that
was the first thing second thing was we
worked long hours we were working I
would
get home only about three in the morning
I was overseeing banquets where I was
working so by the time at all they all
left and tallied the money and all of
that she locked up all the expensive
liquors all this kind was going on and
says this really what I have in life but
in the meantime just before I left India
at the age of 19 the first Asian
Christian Youth Congress was held in
Hyderabad I went in order to cheer for
the Delhi team they were coming from all
over the fellows now my brother-in-law
son the Krishnan he was a brilliant guy
he was to represent Delhi in the
preacher contest but he didn't reach her
contests correct I can't believe that he
didn't come because he was a good
student I came because I didn't worry
about my studies the examination time so
I although I was doing well by then as a
new believer I was just trying to stay
as much as I could at the top of my
class my principal loved me and he said
look I know this is in your heart you go
so I went I represented Delhi and
unbelievably I won the Prix he won the
Asian Youth Bridge a contest prize it
makes no human sense because anybody who
knows you knows that you just don't have
any homiletic talents it had to be God
Ravi it's so obvious that it had to be
God this miracle happens and you win you
win
the preaching contest and what does this
lead to
that's the seed that the Lord may have
sown in my heart that there is a
possibility that I started considering
could I take the platform someday and
speak for my Lord but I didn't know what
it would look like so at one point I had
to tell my dad I was losing interest in
the catering industry what I really
wanted to do with my life was prepared
to become a preacher but I had no idea
what I mean we knew of Billy Graham we
knew of the Canadian barrymore but these
were the big guys you know and I wasn't
yes it's so high and so I went to formal
theological training in what is now
called Tyndale College in Toronto at
that time it is called the Ontario Bible
College I went there finished my four
years bachelors
followed that at Trinity in Deerfield
Illinois hang on one second we're gonna
go to a break and we're gonna get the
rest of this wonderful story with Ravi
Zacharias stick around hey folks
that's Orleans I'm Eric Metaxas and I'm
sitting here with Ravi Zacharias Ravi
you're telling us this extraordinary
story you you seem a man on a mission
even that early age before you meant to
be on a mission you're studying and
studying and you said you went to
Trinity in Deerfield which is in Chicago
so at this point you know that you're on
this ministry path did you think at that
point that you would be the pastor of a
local church or were you thinking of
something along the lines of what your
life has now become so you when I went
to Trinity Erica died it was 1973 so I
was then 27 years old and I had already
had a life-changing experience just
prior to that in the year 17 1971 when I
was 25 I was invited to preach in
Vietnam through the daughter of Jada
Fame Jonathan go forth of China
Alice Jeffery she had invited me to go
to Vietnam because she'd been a
missionary there for nearly 50 years and
she said you know the American troops
are there the country's falling apart
young people have no model students
before the fall of Saigon that is
correct
Saigon fell in what 77 it was 75 but
this is some time before this was in 71
oh I'm sorry go ahead so I went there
and I traveled through the length of the
country with the Christian and
Missionary Alliance the denomination
that I later on got ordained with but
the American troops got me around in
their helicopters or I drove on the
lonely Highway this is amazing I had no
idea that that you or anyone had done
such a thing to be preaching in Vietnam
in 1971 it's one thing for Bob Hope to
crack a few jokes but I really have
never heard anything like this it was
amazed
as I sit here talking to you and you
retrace your steps you see the hand of
God and all now there were great
missionaries there the church there was
called The Thin lon the good news Church
and the National Protestant Church of
Vietnam was the CNMI church at that time
but there were many other missionaries
there too but for them to trust a young
guy like me you know I'm still halfway
through my theological education but
what happened was revival broke out
through those meetings my interpreter
was about 17 years old I was shocked how
God was using us how only I had one
sermon book I kept in my jacket I don't
know there handful of someone's I just
kept repeating them moving through every
city I still remember one of them was
the cross of Christ that I preached
again and again and every time people
would respond in one of those sessions
and yet rang just about the whole
student body walked forward and fell on
their face before God and that again was
the imprint of God reminding me what he
could do with me so to answer your
question by the time I got to Trinity I
knew evangelism was really flowing in my
veins but I didn't know exactly what so
here I am a Trinity
studying on some of the greatest minds
of that time you know Carl FH Henry John
Gerstner Kenneth cancer J I Packer John
RW start I Howard Marshall please an
archer they were all there then while
they're at the sinkhole a day how and
then the two that changed my path with
John Warwick Montgomery and norm Geisler
whose funeral I just preached that I was
lost so he just passed away that's me I
mean two of the premier apologists I had
the privilege of meeting John Warwick
Warwick Montgomery but never norm
Geisler but you so yeah you said at the
feet of some some of the Great's of that
day I still can't believe they were all
there at universities that's I mean
amazing you know Thomas makovski Walter
Kaiser they were the old testament
apartment under Gleason arch I mean
Gleason arch has books of the Old
Testament introduction we call to the
yellow Bible you know and dr. staat was
teaching the Sermon on the Mount
you know ji Paco was doing his lecturing
there on the sovereignty of God and
angel' ISM and so on now as I look back
and you know how it all happened was I
was actually headed elsewhere I won't
name the school I was going to but I
bumped into John start at a meeting in
Toronto and he just listened to me for a
few minutes he said looking at the
heartbeat you haven't the passion you
have for evangelism apologetics is what
you need Ravi you should be going to
Trinity so I literally got into my car
drove to Chicago a few days later met
Kenneth cancer who was the Dean at that
time and one of the finest theologians
of those days and that's that's what
became the story and after being under
dr. geiszler and Montgomery watching
their incredible debates at that time I
said this is what I want to do I didn't
want to defend the gospel for prior
Christ's sake Montgomery of course was
sort of with a two-edged sword you know
he'd pierced the opponent that was not
my goal my goal is to win the opponent
is that's always the trick isn't it in
other words when we're talking about
debating about God I have seen people
win debates and lose souls and in other
words it's one thing to win an argument
as you just said but it's nothing to win
another person to Christ that's a tricky
thing isn't it it's very tricky because
the audience can draw less out of you
than that you know they may go to you in
a different direction or your opponent
if he or she is clever yeah they're like
Louis you know one of his most famous
debates so he nearly walked away with
his head hanging down yeah he'd been
beaten up at there I have never felt
that urge to knock over a person
I felt have always felt the urge that of
this person with this zeal and
disability could find the truth in Jesus
Christ that's who they would actually be
debating so I went to training in
apologetics under them and after I
graduated traveled the world
I graduated in 76 77 the CNM a sent me
around the world 15 countries over 48
straight weeks I preached 576 times with
my wife and my two-year-old daughter
and I came back a changed man I was worn
out but I said this is my calling
wow I am an evangelist in my bones and
that's what I want to do it's fatiguing
just listening to you recount that in a
sentence the idea of doing that is
extraordinary and you've been doing that
Ravi for a little while now yeah I mean
this is coming up on you know you were
talking about 50 years of this kind of
activity when we come back more folks
with Ravi Zacharias this is the Eric
Metaxas show you can find us at metaxas
talk.com
you can find me at Eric Metaxas dot-com
don't go away
hey folks here crow taxes show I'm
talking to Ravi Zacharias Ravi in the
second hour I want to talk to you about
your books and about apologetics
specifically but in the few minutes we
have left take us forward I mean you say
that that was this signal year in your
life kind of determines the future and
and now it's been you know more than
four decades that you have been doing
just what you did that year I hope
you're doing a little less preaching
than 500 and something sermons a year
maybe not I don't know well that was
that was a year of many great success
and stories but also a lot of lessons
learned you know you can't push your
voice you I paid the price with my voice
I had to come back and have vocal cord
surgery your are you kidding I didn't
Wow they had to remove some nodules
which they did but all that aside I
found my calling Erik you know yeah I
don't think anybody would want to listen
to me Sunday after Sunday in the same
church I'm too intense you know I've got
a lot of passion in what I say a pastors
privilege is to present line upon line
to build the truth and let the truth do
that persuading over a period of time we
evangelist go in for shorter spans so we
have to come in with that intensity and
the passion because whoever is coming is
also coming sort of once in a way for
that so that's what I was called to do
and I began doing evangelistic work your
rights about 47 years since I did that I
started that and never look back I know
right now this is my calling and that's
why it was so critical that I marry the
right person because they pay a higher
price when you're on itinerant out of
the door so often if your spouse is not
more committed than you are to the
calling it's just not going to be that
which would work out and then my kids
you know I had three have sweet children
five grandchildren it's not an easy life
you know and you remember the kids names
because if you can't then probably you
need to spend more time at home or
important if they still love and respect
you you know that's much more important
wow that that is a it's a heavy price
Billy Graham spoke about that very often
about how difficult that was and how he
might have preached less actually as he
got older he was thinking about that um
so what is your schedule like these days
how often how many countries are you in
per year how many times do you speak
roughly speaking because you're now 70
71 73 73 yes sir okay yeah born in 46 I
wish I could say I have slowed down but
I I think I'll average about a couple
hundred days on the road this year I'm
trying to bring it down to about a
hundred in two years I'm already quite
committed for the next year so I'll have
to pull back I feel the anointing of the
Lord as rich as I ever have I'd be a
liar if I didn't acknowledge that but at
the same time you have to have wisdom
and know when to hold back you know
that's a harder thing and now the
grandkids are growing up and they ask me
questions are you gonna be a birthday
papa and that's a heart melting question
you know so it's important that I spend
more time writing and more time now on
our base in Atlanta but it was a 1984
that we founded the ministry as it
stands now rzi M which is a ministry of
evangelism undergirded by apologetics we
have a staff of between two to three
hundred based in 15 countries and with
90 full-time apologist speakers some of
the finest voices here I want to talk to
you more about that in our in our next
hour but before we go I want to give
people the website our Z I M org
that's Ravi Zacharias International
Ministries org RZ i m dot org Ravi thank
you so much thanks Eric
[Music]
hey there folks is here contacts the
show I get to continue my conversation
with Ravi Zacharias
Ravi welcome back thank you I want to
talk to you about everything so that's a
problem we have limited time you you
have a book out called Jesus among
secular God's the countercultural claims
of Christ and you have a new devotional
out called the logic of God let me ask
you Ravi
there are so many people in the culture
in which we live that don't believe one
can rationally make the case for the God
of the Bible you've spent 50 years doing
just that what what do you say to
somebody who says that these are things
that we can't know or there are too many
questions for me to make a decision well
I think it's partially true there are
too many questions the fact of the
matter is there are many unanswered
questions for scepticism also yeah
there's even more unanswered questions
in the anti theistic or atheistic
worldview I mean when a person like
Richard Dawkins raising all these
questions about the horrible things of
the God of the Old Testament but then
ends up saying ultimately we know I
don't believe there's any such thing as
evil we were all dancing to our DNA so
the God he takes down he takes down on
the notion of evil but then when he
comes to defend his own view says the no
such thing is evil we're all dancing to
our DNA so obviously didn't want God to
dance to his DNA just wanted us to dance
to our DNA I think Chesterton's comment
is very appropriate here he talks about
the fact that for the Christian joy is
central and sorrow is peripheral for the
skeptic he says sorrow is central and
joy is peripheral and what he meant by
that is why is joy central for the
Christian because the fundamental
questions are answered the peripheral
questions are not answered and so sorrow
lingers on the periphery there but for
the skeptic the fundamental questions
are unanswered that's why he thinks of
pessimism and meaninglessness and
emptiness being at the center of it and
the peripheral questions are answered
therefore the laughter and
frivolous nature of life and so on I
think that is true because when you what
are the fundamental questions of life
why am I here
what does it mean to be human how do I
differentiate between good and evil what
really brings meaning how do I find
fulfilment in sexuality with the with
illegitimate boundaries that it ought
that we enjoy what happens to human
being when he or she dies
those are the fundamental questions
those are the ones that define who we
are and how we should live and so I
think the rational arguments and the
existential irrelevant arguments are on
the side of the theist not on the side
of the anti theist or the atheist if I
were not a believer in God I would have
no way to explain absolute moral
reasoning nor would I be able to explain
the purpose and meaning of human life
don't you think that the the issue for
me at least the issue is that in our
culture we give a pass to a theist
points of view in other words we ought
to mock them ridicule them we ought to
call them out we ought to hold them to
account hold their feet to the
intellectual fire that's never done in
the culture unless someone bumps into
you or a handful of figures I mean when
I think of the Charlie Rose program all
of those years I I don't think I ever
saw anyone like you on that program in
other words everyone has these questions
these these are not peripheral questions
every human being has these questions
but you would get the idea from the
culture that we don't have any good
answers yeah and I think they've
actually concluded that there are no
answers because they think there are no
good answers they think there are no
answers whatsoever and yet Eric you know
my experience all over the globe I mean
why the name of reason that China
becomes the fastest growing church in
the world they lived with the atheistic
underpinnings all that Wow why didn't
you go to Moscow today and see an
auditorium full of young people coming
to listen to an open forum why is a per
capita Iran one of the fastest growing
churches right now in the world on a per
capita basis we
my colleague and I were in Carroll and
we saw so many come to Christ night
after night in Egypt they themselves are
moving away to a natural heir to an
atheistic framework because their own
worldview has not given them the answers
I think the answers of Jesus so profound
Eric you know why I am here what my
marriage means how to raise my family
but it is all based on the fact that we
have essential worth given to us by God
himself not some kind of extrinsic worth
given to us by some temporary state or
order of some leader to have that
essential value given to you of every
human life and to have the wisdom and
the legitimacy of options and whatever
it is that God is calling us to in in
our in our existential reality there are
no answers and the naturalistic
framework and that's why the best-known
philosophers will make me even Bertrand
Russell would say you know I don't know
why I think there is good and evil
I have no satisfactory explanation or
others saying without an antique
referent of a infinite being and a
purposeful being was created us there is
no basis for deciding between good and
evil so I think there are rational
arguments there are existential
irrelevant arguments and there are
empirically verifiable propositions in
the scriptures the Bible is not just a
book of some spiritual ethereal stuff
this propositional truth of geographical
realities that can be tested against
what the claims are the Bible is the
most unique book when you've got a
volume for 1500 years 66 books 40
different authors all pointing to the
birth life death and resurrection
ultimately of Jesus Christ I think so
beautiful it's a beautiful cohesive
narrative i I think yeah if people are
honest with themselves I think they have
to conclude that if I must choose and I
must this has to be the best choice by
far there's no doubt in others you
always have questions but what amazes me
Ravi is that we live in a culture that
doesn't encourage us to choose or to
think things through it encourages us
distract ourselves away from making
those kinds of decisions you are so
correct and the way you phrased it in
your opening lines that's exactly
actually what Anthony flue ended up
saying before he died he said the world
view that from which he represented the
atheistic worldview just didn't fit
together with the facts as he sees them
and fascinatingly he pointed to two
authors to see us Lewis an NT right and
he says CS Lewis's argument for this
moral framework which we think an NT
rights argument for the bodily
resurrection of Jesus he says if those
two realities are true it makes absolute
sense and he said the same thing no
other worldview does if there is one it
has to be this judeo-christian I mean it
seems to me very clear but as I say I
think we live in a culture where no
nobody is forced to think it through in
fact they're encouraged not to think it
through but when I think of what folks
like Richard Dawkins and so on have
gotten away with it mystifies me that
they're able to get away with such
incredibly sloppy thinking I mean if you
say that I don't have any real basis on
which to determine what is good or evil
or whether there are such things as good
or evil then I would simply say why
should I take anything you ever say
seriously especially since one of the
major arguments they have against God is
evil yeah he's so terrible that I don't
want to believe in heads where do you
get this idea of terrible so he's
obviously got some intuitive certainty
about what God ought to not be like but
some certainty about what life is like
it is it's a very very strange thing and
we are of course living in strange times
we're living in I would you know say
that when you began in the 70s there was
a different mindset where I still think
there was respect for the idea of truth
and logic and we seem to have moved into
a place now where truth and logic are
dismissed almost as patriarchal
constructs that they're part of an older
way and that if you're trying to
convince me with logic there's some
deception there I'm not going to buy
into your phony logic well and that's
why along with all of that we have lost
civility
we have lost hope we have lost any
manner of proper reasoning across
political lines and theories and if I
were a young person growing up today
watching the behavior of some in
leadership and how they ever got into
office to say what they do and the
irrationality of statements that come
out almost every day in the news aided
and abetted by mass propaganda as well
they seem to take the weirder stuff and
put it up on the front pay of course and
the reason is because logic and
reasoning has gone and once you've done
away with logic and reasoning and moral
reasoning particularly as Gertrude
Himmelfarb in her book roads to
modernity points out that the United
States did not have like the french full
of softs reasoning alone rationality it
was moral reasoning that was at the
foundation of the US and the UK so I
think when we've lost that then we've
lost behavioral norms also I don't know
why they don't connect the dots and see
why our culture has become so violent
and so vicious and so disrespectful at
the same time as we have tossed out the
notion of a moral order and of God
himself that's this is the logical
outworking of what we have actually been
done I'm sorry to agree with you it is a
it's a difficult and strange time in
which we live people often say and I
agree with them that our our only real
hope is for revival that we need
spiritual revival otherwise in a way it
becomes impossible impossible for us to
see what we need to see in order to do
what we need to do we'll be right back
folks talking to Ravi Zacharias you can
go to our Zi m org and find out more oh
hello
it's the extra taxes so I'm sitting here
with Ravi Zacharias a lot of you were
thinking so Eric shut up quick so Ravi
can talk Ravi it's such a joy to have
you here now you always have a new book
out the newest of your books is called
the logic of God
it's a devotional 52 Christian
essentials for the heart and mind 52 I'm
just guessing does that have something
to do with the deck of cards what's the
significance of 52 well I think it
really is much
well my way of thinking and the number
of there 52 it is the fact Erik when I
take a thought for the day and I do my
devotions today and then all of a sudden
next day need need to read another two
or three chapters and you keep moving on
the treasure of yesterday suddenly gets
replaced by what you've just done again
this morning I like to meditate cogitate
on issues that have really made an
impact on me and I thought to myself why
take a daily different passage take one
or two central ideas with a particular
passage and let it form your life for
the week thinking on these reflecting
and then allow your own natural
imagination to add to it and other
thoughts so this is to be done once a
week every Monday I had actually called
titled the book thank God it's Monday
but the publishers didn't like that
publishers are always wrong especially
Zondervan ladies and gentlemen know it's
so funny is that publishers people
always say why did you name your book
their wedding and you yeah well I don't
you know there are publishers they have
ideas and they have sales forces which
are the most wrong of all and they have
these different ideas the logic of God
they seem to think that would sell
better we'll find out won't we won't we
rob a because it to me have and I look
at that yeah I talked a lot about the
pattern of God's sauce let this mind be
in you with Jesus Christ Jesus but the
average person says doesn't read it that
way
thank see that's the point that the
title becomes irrelevant if people
aren't reading what people think you
know is there the logical God could mean
anything
thank God it's Monday that is tremendous
on at least two points and you know that
right I mean thank thank God it's Monday
if you are looking for hope in life you
say thank God it's Friday I want it but
but thank God it's Monday it's
countercultural but then also the idea
that thank God it's Monday I get to do
another wonderful hopeful devotional I
think the people at Zondervan are really
really kicking themselves right now as
they should as they should I have to say
that a devotional from you after all
these years why did you wait till now
people would have thought that you might
have done this a long time
yeah I think the answer to that too was
the publishers came to me and said you
know you write so many things over a
week or a month and so on that would
make beautiful reflective reading yeah
but in a devotional yard so it was their
idea
so with zonna vans idea that then then
technically they get to title the book
how could I take it back everything I
said well the the book the logic of God
let's talk about the meaning of what you
just said the logic of God because your
whole life has been summed up in a way
by expressing the logic of faith and
unpacking I hate that verb but unpacking
the logos trying to make it
understandable to minds and so is that
part of what's running through this well
what's running through this is the
questions that haunt us
oftentimes where we run into some dead
ends on answers the logic of God is
intended to unpack God's answers on
different themes for example if you have
a deep regret or something that happened
last week you know how do you get over
that you say are not to have done that
or not to have said it why did I make
that mistake or even in a message you
say boy that one line I ought not have
said there's one I say they're called
please shut the gate and it's taken from
there an essay by FW Bohr on the English
writer he said he used to go for a walk
every morning and he would see a farm
where he would wanted to walk through
but there was just a sign on it please
shut the gate if you don't shut the gate
the critter is gonna follow you and
wreck your whole walk let us say nothing
about the farm and so he takes the
thought please shut the gate and he
weaves beautiful the notion of memory
and its profitability but also the pain
that it can bring and then ultimately he
will take you to the verse Paul says
forgetting those things which are behind
I pressed towards the mark for the prize
of the high calling which is in Christ
Jesus
boram had that brilliant way of taking
thoughts and then anchoring it at the
end so I did an essay borrowing that
title how do you cover the past regrets
for the present and the future
then there's our essays on problem of
pain suffering you know how do you how
do you
so that the question of meaning the
question of finding transitional moments
in life so it takes various questions
that we have brings it into a devotional
for the day and then there are
discussion questions and it can be done
as a group too and those ideas were all
Jean divans actually I did the writing
and so I was very happy that we could
write it I guess I'm pretty lucky to
have them as a publisher suddenly that's
that's very interesting in in in in
these conversations the names CS Lewis
keeps popping into my mind he has to
have had at least some influence on your
life because we I guess most people
would think of him as somehow the
premier apologist of the twentieth
century to what extent that he
influenced you Lewis influenced me a lot
but not as much as one might imagine of
all people I think there were a couple
of writers that really influenced me
that would be Malcolm Muggeridge
and GK Chesterton Muggeridge his ability
to turn a phrase you know when he wrote
on almost anything for example his book
the end of Christendom which is a
slender volume on Pascal you're
absolutely brilliant he wrote one called
Christ in the media on the danger yeah
what the I gate was all about how it
could manipulate here so I would say
Malcolm Muggeridge was the number one
person that probably because of the way
he articulated he was more a social
theorist I would say immoral
I wanna I'm gonna cut you off but I want
to come back and talk more about Malcolm
Muggeridge and about Chesterton with
Ravi Zacharias stick around
hit it folks I almost said I'm talking
to Malcolm Muggeridge I'm not actually
I'm talking to Ravi Zacharias but Ravi
you said that Malcolm Muggeridge was a
great influence on you
literally last night I popped in a DVD
that I got either from eBay or something
Malcolm Malcolm Muggeridge talking about
the lives that I remember the title of
it but but the lives of six people I
think Pascal Saint Agustin and it ends
with Bonhoeffer Tolstoy whatever and I
watched the one on Bonhoeffer and it was
made in 1974 and it was an extraordinary
thing because the first time I had ever
seen Bonhoeffer's fiance on film
probably the last time I'll see her on
film but she's interviewed this would
have been 74 3 years before her very
early death from cancer but I was
marveling as I watched the documentary
at what I ought to have known and
probably did know but but his facility
with language and I thought my goodness
I need to go back and read Muggeridge
because apart from Chesterton as you
mentioned that there's there's really
nobody quite like Malcolm Muggeridge and
and many people don't know who he is
just like young people haven't heard of
my hero and French or Coulson you think
Malcolm Muggeridge
is worthy of reading but what I mean I
assume you met him
yes I did yeah only once though uh-huh
when I visited his home in Roberts
bridge in England I was actually
speaking at some meetings and I quoted
him two or three times and somebody came
from the audience and said do you know
that mr. Paresh lives just down the road
I said no I didn't he said would you
like to meet him I said are you kidding
me he said no would you I said it would
be a dream come true next day I had
lunch with Malcolm and Kitty Muggeridge
their home a simple peasant type lunch
you know with the crusty bread and
cheese ah what a water afternoon and he
took me through the wall of his pictures
you know he was well-loved in India he
taught journalism in India from John he
was the first one to call out Stalin for
who he really was how many in his book
winter in Moscow he was a contributor to
the Guardian I think and then became
matter of punch magazine I forgot he was
editor of punch I mean he was such a
legend and I read a lot of his books
when I first came to faith but I have
you know halfway forgotten about him so
to hear you mention him he he was you
know what do they say sui generis see
there's there was no one like him
absolutely no one like well I remember
one of his lines he said when he would
meet up with God he was going to ask God
to forgive him for being so fatally
fluent because he had manipulated in his
own words you know ideas as a journalist
he would make things seem what they were
just by the use of language till he met
Christ and I think you know the name of
Fred Barnes they're journalists here I
asked Fred Barnes once how do you come
to know Jesus he said oh that's
interesting
tuberous journalists were visiting our
home they were staying with us and after
they left my wife said to me there's
something about those guys I want you to
find out what makes them tick so he said
I wrote to them as my wife wants to know
what you make guys stick and the reply
came in the book and the mail
Jesus rediscovered by Malcolm Muggeridge
and you know it was Muggeridge that now
if there's a lot of things in that burg
there's a lot of thing in my garage
theology that I don't quite agree with
but he loved Jesus and I think his
farewell address at st. Giles in in
Borough when he quit the chaplaincy at
the University there because of all that
was happening that talk of his I think
it's in vintage Muggeridge the book
vintage Moggridge that farewell address
is so powerful in which he talks about
he said I have no way to no desire to
stand in your way of pleasure but
whatever else life is about it's not
going to be found on the plastic wings
of Playboy or in psychedelic fancies and
so I stepped down from this position
because the decisions the university is
making here he had found Christ and he
knew how devastating the culture had
become in that day and this was in the
in the early 70s sir you know I think it
was 74 or something yeah when he quit
the chaplaincy yeah I've become Chapel I
imagine that chaplaincy in the India
in Edinburgh Scotland and and can we
credit him essentially with the
quote/unquote discovery of mother Teresa
I would say so because what did what did
his book call dibs on something
beautiful for God for God yeah and I
think he just said she turned his life
around and that was that was his own
testimony to the 20th century pilgrim
awesome yeah that's right yes and this
therefore I mean what a different tape
by Muggeridge visa vie some of the other
atheistic thinkers went oh yeah well any
wrote didn't you write a memoir called
the greenstick yes sir I guess I read
these many many years ago but I feel
renewed zeal to go back and look up
Volume one of a two volumes the second
was the infernal Grove and the
greenstick a chronicle of wasted years
that's it I mean that book was I mean
loaded with phrases so to me the
precision of articulation is what
enamored me with the way Margaret wrote
yeah I said he opens up vistas that
nobody else does and for the Gospels
sake that's what I wanted to do Wow
we have about a minute left to talk
about Chesterton before we go again
there is nobody like G K Chesterton
obviously he influenced CS Lewis and so
many others and after you leave I'm
talking to a Chesterton expert oddly
enough to talk about Chesterton but for
people who don't know Chesterton what
was it about him that spoke to you what
did you did you read orthodoxy first
yeah I think that's one of the best
books ever written it is especially that
chapter the ethics of a life favorite
chapter probably of any chapters it's
such a slender book yeah but yeah or
you've picked up the write his
everlasting man is tougher but Lewis
says that it was ever like the LOA
everlasting man that put the last link
in his own spiritual journey Wow
so he credited that book with something
very I just think once again Muggeridge
being a an analyst of society in that
day of those pungent one-liners even his
poetry I mean I went to visit his home
and sat in his chair for some time I
think between Muggeridge in Chesterton
is a toss-up yeah Wow
a century they well chesterton I mean
you talk about a way with language it's
stunning I mean he thinks in aphorisms
and but the first 50 pages of the
everlasting man are really tough I mean
I remember thinking where am i and then
finally it gets a little clearer but so
much of his stuff is just genius Ravi
I'm sorry we're out of time or you're
out of time but we're just so happy
finally to get you here in the studio I
want to tell folks again about your
books Jesus among secular gods the
countercultural claims of Christ came
out last year and then the brand-new
book the logic of God 52 Christian
essentials for the heart and mind which
seems not like your average devotional
and then the website rzi m dot org ravi
thank you so much thanks Eric and by the
way love your books I just carry them
they're heavy but I still carry them if
you're listening I'm blushing
we have pillows in America but the best
pillows are my pillow my fellow the
reason I bring it up and and a lot of
people watching don't know this Mike
Lyndell you know he advertises on a lot
of programs a lot but they always put up
a code like put in this code and you get
a discount right but what people don't
know and I don't care if it's on Fox or
whatever it is if you put in a code
other than our code mm-hmm those are all
Democrat codes really do it I'm telling
you so you put in the word Eric er IC
also happens to be your son is named
Eric that is correct one of the reasons
my parents named me Eric even though I'm
older right I just thought I knew it was
coming as a no Maj that kind of you know
well they were they're pre she n't but
the point is that if where were they
from you know I forget it's so long ago
I was like near Persia
I wasn't even born but but the point is
that I want if we have a pillow Albin do
we a pill we always keep pillows ahead
and as you're feeling it think invented
while on crack cocaine ended while on
crack that's how good he is I'm not a
drug person but if you know you can come
up with this on credit anyway so that's
what you could do at the point is with
this pillow and the sheets and
everything if you don't just hold
in sheets and the code is Eric Eric Eric
but but the thing that people don't know
is if you put in the code Eric you get a
fabulous discount huge discount terrific
tremendous discount if you don't put in
the code Eric you can also put them at
axis but if you don't do that people
don't realize it's a democrat discount
oh then it goes to an oval OC o net CP
loser crazy Bernie I mean we have to
imagine I think they people should only
use your discount code mr. president I
just want to say thank you very much oh
it's yours
thank you thank you very much thanks for
watching folks
[Music]